---
layout: post
title: A Narrow Escape Driving in the Hills
---

Today was Magh Bihu. It's the first of three bihu festivals celebrated in Assam. Symbolizing the first harvest and the beginning of the new year, it is celebrated with a bonfire and a feast the previous night as well as a celebration in the morning. The celebration at NESAC was due to start at 7AM that day. However, waking up well past when I set the alarm for, Riya and I rushed to witness the closing of the Bihu celebrations at 10. We sat around the dying fire and ate some of the delicacies sourced from Guwahati. This included super tender smoked duck meat which was the most delicious I've ever had! 

The adventure of the day, however, was yet to come. Upon finishing up and backing up the car to head to work, I noticed in the ORVM that the rear tyre was off the edge of the road. Driving offroad is fairly normal and I wasn't too worried. But when I shifted the gear to drive ahead, the ground near the back tire gave way and tumbled down the slope. Momentarily panicking, I revved the engine harder only to slide further off the road and down the hill. To avoid crashing into the pine forest below, I shifted to neutral, pulled the handbrake and pressed hard against the brakes. After a few frenzied minutes of sheer shock and no action, I decided to step out to find some large stones to support the vehicle. Only, I couldn't step out because the handbrakes work for the rear wheels and with one wheel dangling off the road, there was nothing to support the car. Further off the road and clutching onto the brakes for dear life, I sent Riya back to my friends around the bonfire. Awesome as they are, they rushed back with stones and placed it under the tyres as I gave one last attempt. As though sensing the danger, the engine revved harder than ever before and sprang back on to the road in a victorious leap!

An experience such as this put several things into perspective. But more on those epiphanies later. For now, a big shout out to my rescuers Pranjal, Bipul and Phukon! And also to Riya for keeping calm when most would panic. A crazy beginning to the new year. Here's to many more adventures where we come out safe on the other side!