---
layout: post
title: Blog on a Blog on a blog
---

For this first post, I figured I'll make a quick documentation of how I created this blog. I initially tried several ways starting from installing ruby and Jekyll. However, the simplest way I found is as what I'm posting today. 

Start of with a template compatible with github pages. You can explore some of them [here](https://jekyllthemes.io/github-pages-themes). I used the [Jekyll Now repository](https://github.com/barryclark/jekyll-now). Once you select a template you like you can use the following steps:

1. Fork the repo of the template of your choosing on GitHub and change the name to YourGithubUserName.github.io (replace YourGithubUserName with your github username, don't be a dumdum)

2. On the terminal after installing and setting up git if you haven't already, enter the directory you want the remote directory to be synced with and initialize git by typing git init
3. Optional: Create a branch if required using git checkout -b branchName
4. Configure the remote directory to the directory using git remote add origin https://github.com/RituAnilkumar/repoName.git 
5. git pull to sync the forked directory by typing git pull origin branchName. If branch was not created, the branch name is master

You can customize your blog by modifying the config.yaml file, About.md and other files as per your requirement. All the blog posts are available in the posts directory. You can either create your own markdown posts or duplicate the existing post and modify it. Make sure you rename it to a yyyy-mm-dd-title.md format.
Once you add markdown posts to the posts directory, you can push it to GitHub. This can be done as follows:
1. git add . 
2. git commit -m "commit message"
3. git push origin master (or branchName)

And that's it, you're set! For more information on using git check out [this ebook](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2) by Scott Chacon and Ben Straub.